ABC_001122   (e.g. CTC_020305)

ABC (first three positions: human reading, chosen arbitrarily) (e.g.: CTC)

00 : (Species ID) (e.g. 02)

11 : (Customer ID) (e.g. 03)

22 : (Number of Project with that 'Customer' and 'Species') (e.g. 05)


Sample IDS: ABC_001122_PXX_WNXX (e.g.: CTC_020305_P01_WB09)

LIMS: Laborartory Information Management System
Contains Data for Each Sample, and keeping track of EVERYTHING that happens in the lab
Will have a series of 'checks' so that the techs do not mistakenly skip a step of the laboratory process
Will Generate Metrics on Efficiency within the Lab

When Samples Arrive (in plates):
	In between each step, a barcode will be printed for each step, and scanned (maybe upload a picture, add comments, etc)
1: Get Plates (For example, 3 Plates)
2: Barcode the plates (comments, 'Plates arrived in Ice'), make a note in the Log
3: Plates are placed somewhere in the Lab, so the lab needs to update whwat Freezer, shelf, cabinet in the Lab
	(Plates are kept for up to a year, and need to be updated accordingly)
4: QC: a 'visual' inspection 
5: Quantification (Using a robot, we put the Samples in a special solution, and measures the amount of flurescnecse (sp?) )
6: Normalization (Make all the samples to use the same 'amount' of DNA (.csv is read in by the robot))
7: Library Prep (This is where RAPIDseq deviates from TARGETseq (aka CAPTUREseq))
CAPTUREseq
{
	a) Shear the DNA (chop it up!) to about 200 bases (a base is either an A, G, C, or T)
	b) End-Repair (some things don't chop up so nicely)
	c) Adenylation (we attach an 'A' (adenenine), and then we attach 'known' regions called 'adapters', so that we know where we start 
		reading something that we know and don't know)
	d) Ligation (Joining the synthetic 'barcode' sequence to attach to the sequence we are looking for)
	e) Size-selection (Gets rid of excess & bad reads)
	f) Amplification (Making the DNA more visible and usable, so that we can really see what we have)
	g) Capture (That's why it's called CAPTUREseq) (We make a synthetic compliment, so that the DNA will stick to it, and the Sticky-End (Biotene)
		Then, we use a very strong protein, that will recognize the Biotene, and bind the Protein to a bead of Iron, and then we use a Magnet on
		the Iron beads, pulling up our 'targets', thus 'Capturing' the areas we want)
		
		The Probes are designed to Capture the areas we are interested in (especially areas that are Unique)
		A binds to T, and G binds to C
	h) SEQ (Sequencing)
}

Module 0: Steps 1 - 4.
Module 1: Steps 5 - 6.
Module 2: Library Prep (CAPTUREseq)


Q+A
Ryan: Access Control, who should have access to
Answer: We will be using Dummy files and reads, and the User (Lab Techs) will have access from Beginning of LIMS
Eventually clients will be able to view the status of their project

Dan: Logins?
Answer: User logs in (Orin, Ediene, one of the techs), they choose a project. They scan a plate.  If it is the right plate, then it will say OK, otherwise throw error

Dan: Should lab techs be able to share?
Answer: They will be sharing, as of now.  But we might be changing that soon.  Together the lab techs carry the projects from beginning to end TOGETHER. 
(An aside, should there be a 'Lab' login)

How often should we meet?
Every 1 or 2 weeks

Next Meeting: 
